Add documentation about the NMDC Field Notes app (#125)
microbiomedata/docs: content/home/src/howto_guides/field_notes_tester.md

# Submitting in the field: NMDC Field Notes

# Beta Testing

| ⚠️ | The NMDC Field Notes app is beta software and may contain bugs. Some bugs may result in data loss. Do not use it as your sole source of recordkeeping. |

> | ----: | :---- |

Reviewer: I had assumed that the `table(emoji + message)` thing in the Google Doc was the outcome of @pkalita-lbl attempting to replicate GitHub's admonitions. Since we are on GitHub now, I was thinking we could use the admonitions, themselves.

Here's what one of those looks like:

> [!WARNING]
> The NMDC Field Notes app is beta software and may contain bugs. Some bugs may result in data loss. Do not use it as your sole source of recordkeeping.

The Markdown code for that is:
```md
> [!WARNING]
> The NMDC Field Notes app is beta software and may contain bugs. Some bugs may result in data loss. Do not use it as your sole source of recordkeeping.
```

However, I don't know how Sphinx will show that. It may show it as a blockquote with `[!WARNING]` at the top. I think I'd prefer this `table(emoji + message)` thing to that.

With that in mind, I won't be commenting on the format of these "admonitions" in this PR. Later, one of us can look into how Sphinx would display things if we were to use GitHub's admonition format.

   2. If prompted with a message about not being able to install unknown apps from this source, following the prompt to open Settings and enable the “Allow from this source” setting. Once the app is installed, you may disable this setting again for security reasons.  
   3. If prompted with an “App scan recommended” popup, tap the “Scan app” button. Once the scan completes tap the “Install” button.

There is no automatic update process for beta versions on Android devices. Please check the GitHub Releases page regularly to see if newer versions are available. Alternatively you can be notified of new GitHub Releases by visiting [https://github.com/microbiomedata/nmdc-field-notes](https://github.com/microbiomedata/nmdc-field-notes), selecting Watch \> Custom, and checking the Releases checkbox. You must be signed in to GitHub to enable notifications. Note that there may be a delay of up to 20 minutes between when the GitHub Release is created and when the APK file is added to it.

| ℹ️ | Once the app is out of beta testing, it will be installable and receive updates via the Google Play Store. |
| ----: | :---- |

## Known bugs and limitations

> Please note that this app is currently in the testing phase, and is not meant to serve as the only resource for collecting sample information. We highly recommend you also record sample information without the NMDC Field Notes app to ensure a stable backup.  

Reviewer: I suggest adding some emphasis to "also" and "without". When I read it as is, I didn't correctly parse the sentence on my first read-through. Here's, I've put them in italics.

```suggestion
Please note that this app is currently in the testing phase, and is not meant to serve as the only resource for collecting sample information. We highly recommend you _also_ record sample information _without_ the NMDC Field Notes app to ensure a stable backup.  
```

### Offline support

The NMDC Field Notes app is designed to work with or without network access. However, there are a few important limitations to be aware of when using it without network access. Please review these carefully if you intend to work in an area without network access.

* Most features of the app require signing in via [ORCID](https://orcid.org/) in order to get your NMDC user profile and any existing studies associated with your account. That information will be stored for offline use, but the **initial sign-in must be done while you have network access**.  

> * Creating and deleting studies cannot be done while offline. *Updating* studies (including adding, updating, and removing samples associated with a study) can be done while offline. **Please create your study or studies before going to an area where you will not have network access.** Due to a known bug, we also recommend adding one temporary sample to the study while online as well.

Reviewer: I suggest adding this sentence, which answers a question that I think some readers will have after reading the preceding sentence.

```suggestion
* Creating and deleting studies cannot be done while offline. *Updating* studies (including adding, updating, and removing samples associated with a study) can be done while offline. Those changes will be synced to the NMDC Submission Portal the next time you're online. **Please create your study or studies before going to an area where you will not have network access.** Due to a known bug, we also recommend adding one temporary sample to the study while online as well.
```

### Multiple users accessing a single study

> The NMDC Field Notes app synchronizes data with the NMDC Submission Portal. The NMDC Submission Portal provides the ability to add multiple contributors to a single study. Therefore, it is possible to see studies in the app which you and others have shared access to.

Reviewer: I found the "...in the app which you and others have shared access to" to be ambiguous (e.g. are multiple people sharing the app or are multiple people sharing the studies).

I think the author's intent with the original paragraph was to say that people can use the app to manage the same studies as they can via the Submission Portal. With that in mind, I rephrased the paragraph to be:

```suggestion
The NMDC Field Notes app synchronizes data with the NMDC Submission Portal. The NMDC Submission Portal has long provided the ability to add multiple contributors to a single study. This is reflected in the NMDC Field Notes app, where users have access to all of the same studies that they do on the NMDC Submission Portal.
```

Reviewer: Oops—now that I have looked at the headings leading up to this section, I see that this is more of a message of caution, than an explanation of a capability.

With that in mind, I suggest rephrasing it to be:

```suggestion
The NMDC Submission Portal has long provided the ability for multiple users to manage a single study. This ability is reflected in the NMDC Field Notes app, where users have access to all of the same studies that they do on the NMDC Submission Portal. Here are some things we want you to keep in mind when working with shared studies in the NMDC Field Notes app.
```
